Ephesians chapter 2 verse 8 through 10 and we say the book of Ephesians It's the Swiss Alps as it's been called I didn't make that up great scholars of times past you know the heights that we ascend to and the majesty of the things and the hearts of God that we see and This is almost to me then the pinnacle of the passage of all the passages that we read and
Um, actually really, um, I just want to do a devotion through it today and usually a devotion is 10 minutes long.
I don't mean that.
Um, I am still a pastor teacher, but, um, devotion, when you look it up in the dictionary, it means ardent, ardent affection towards something.
And, um, as I was sharing with the,
children's church, between services, and my wife, you know, sixth grade was the three best years of my life.
And my English resembles that, and you clearly can see that.
So of course I have to go and go, ardent affection towards something, that's awesome, but what does ardent mean?
So then I have to go look at up ardent,
And I love that word in Webster.
It means warmth of passion glowing hot as fire towards something.
And for us, our devotion, our warmth of passion glowing hot as fire towards something is none other than our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
And I just want to spend time today in these verses just being warm to what a perfect passage for, I think I walked in, it said something like negative nine with the windshield today.
and to come in here and have a roof and the, you know, the heater works and then have the word of God warm us.
I'm just, what a passage.
And so I just want to spend time soaking in the warmth of God's love on these passages.
I never get tired of sharing just something as warm as this Ephesians chapter two, verse eight through 10.
For by grace you've been saved through faith, and that's not of yourself, it's the gift of God.
Not of works, least anyone should boast.
Verse 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.
You know, three things that we'll see through the greatest gift, the greatest love, and the greatest thought.
The greatest gift
has been given to you, to me, eternal salvation, that cannot be taken away.
The greatest love, God's very own heart, that he's gonna speak to us about what he thinks of us in this passage and the beauty of it.
And then the greatest thought of God, we'll see this word here, workmanship, we're his masterpiece.
And there's just something that warms my heart about that.
When you look at Webster's dictionary, Masterpiece, it will speak of it's an artist's greatest work.
Of all the work that he's done, here's his greatest work.
And that's why we call it a masterpiece, a master who made this piece of art.
And here we are, his masterpiece.
warm our hearts over this as we study through this.
But I also love the word that's in a word play on that.
We are the master's peace.
This beautiful creation that we are before him and the thoughts that he has towards us.
And so Father, I thank you for your word.
I thank you that you would give us this word and it's living, it's powerful and it's sharper than a two-edged sword.
We see how great our God is and the price you're willing to pay for us.
And we can see what you think of us, the wonderful thoughts towards us that you were willing to pay the price for us to make us your own.
And Lord, the works, what you want us to do and what we can boldly ask of you will always come as the outcrop of those things, the outpouring of those things, but are never the things
It's who you are and what you've done for us and what you think for us.
And of course there's an evil one that will be on the way to steal, kill and destroy this word to disrupt it so that we don't get to the second
Back of John 10 10 that you want us to have life in that more abundant So would you put a hedge around this place?
Just let your spirit move and speak your heart towards your people warm us with your word Get me out of your way and just let your word soak us Wrap us and draw us we pray in your name.
Amen Ephesians 2 8 says
for by grace you've been saved through faith.
And that not of yourself, it's the gift of God.
This beautiful word here, this word saved, I think we know it and we can go, yeah, saved, but the depths of the word, it means to rescue.
It means to make safe.
And like all the words of languages,
There's these surface levels, but then they can layer and layer and layer.
And when you get into the depths of this word, especially the original language of this, the word goes on to say to make whole, to heal, to restore, and to make well.
What a word for us.
I didn't just save you from your sin and the wrath and the judgment to come.
I've gone even beyond that to
make you whole to heal you and to restore you and to make you well.
I think all of us here today have something that, you know, we go, can you do that?
Can you really do that?
I mean, it's quick to jump in and go, you save me.
I get that.
But then to make me whole from what's broken, to make me
to heal me from all the trauma of the world that we live in the sin that besets us and attacks us and evil one that chases us and you can do that you can make me whole again and of course the Lord goes yes because I just said it for by grace you've been saved through faith and of course it's going to take faith to believe that God would do this and verse eight tells us how we can be saved
And verse nine tells us how we can't be saved.
Verse eight, for by grace you've been saved through faith and that not of yourself, it's the gift of God.
Verse nine, not of works least anyone should boast.
And so here we see this, how do we're saved by grace?
G-R-A-C-E, God's riches, it's Christ expense.
Simple, paid, nothing of us.
And how we can't be saved, not of works.
And I find this to be absolutely freeing.
And as we'll talk more about verse 9 and talk of it in a devotional manner, I'm so glad.
Because if it came down to works, when is enough work?
It's almost like when you're trying to save up a retirement savings.
Don't you even still go, when's enough?
What if the economy changes?
What if some, you know,
thing happens in the country.
What is enough?
And even that we come to, you know, Lord, I just have to be trusting in you for these type of things.
But if it comes to salvation and there's so much of a work trip out there that people think they have to work to earn God's favor, when is enough?
And yet he would come here and simply says, for by grace, you've been saved through faith.
And the beautiful language, whether it's English or Greek or Hebrew,
But it's called a definite article.
And the definite article here is grace.
And what that means when you read that in a sentence structure, definite article means only, one and only.
It's the grace.
And there's nothing else.
For by grace, nothing else that you're saved through faith.
and the freedom that comes from, then I don't have to come.
But just to make it simple for us who aren't math or English majors, better said, English majors, he'll make it clear not of works.
Definite article, it's grace.
God's riches, Christ's.
You don't need to do any of the works that you think.
And we watch people live in this place that they struggle with.
you know, trying to earn God's favor because they think in some way that they have to find the favor of the Lord and we've studied and we've seen from the foundation saved before the foundation of the world.
God demonstrated His love for us that while we were still yet sinners, Christ died for us.
So Lord, let me get this.
If you chose me before the foundation of the world, you loved me while I was still yet a sinner, then you showed up, you made a relationship with me through
this gift of grace and salvation, how could I possibly think that anything could change?
Especially Romans 5.8, God demonstrated his love for us while we were still yet sinners.
Christ died for us to the cross.
And this word that he speaks, it's not of yourselves.
That's freeing to me, but it's the gift of God.
And I said, I wish I was creative, because if I was creative and I'm not, I just,
Bible's open to each.
I would have got a beautiful box today.
I would have wrapped it in a beautiful wrapping paper and I would have used that as my example to say, here's my gift, me to you.
And on that gift would have been what we always put that label from Ray to
And I would have handed it to you and to you and say, this is my gift to you.
You know, all gifts have the same thread and theme through them.
Do they not?
They're relational.
We give gifts to people that we have relationships with, that we want these relationships with.
And we say, here's my gift.
Happy birthday.
Here's my gift.
Merry Christmas.
And we give these gifts and we're saying this is the relationship that I have with you and the beauty of our relationship that we have and then here comes Jesus Christ.
Here's my gift for God so loved the world that he gave.
He's the only begotten son that whoever should believe in him shall not perish.
Here's my gift, it's my son.
Have you received this gift?
And isn't that the beauty of it?
You choose if you're going to receive the gift, but the gift's given and the gift is extended.
Here's my gift to you.
How ridiculous would it be if somebody would give me a gift here where I have this gift, this relationship that I want.
Oh, wow, thanks, hold it.
Let me do a hundred push-ups for you.
Before I take this gift, we'd all sit there, what are you doing?
Why would, you know,
And here comes the Lord and yet people think, let me go and do a hundred things for you before I receive this gift and God's just sitting there.
It's beautifully wrapped.
It's my son wrapped in swaddling clothes.
It's my son who would go to the cross for you.
This is my gift for you.
It's grace, God's riches, Christ's expenses.
All you gotta do is take this gift and it's yours.
You don't need to do anything else.
Then we're into this relationship and February 1991,
I shouldn't do public math.
What is that, 35 years?
I started in the book of Genesis, and I read chapter by chapter, verse by verse.
I didn't miss a chapter.
And I didn't know much as I read the Old Testament, chapter by chapter.
I would spend three hours a night.
I'd go to work.
I couldn't wait to get home to sit and go, man, wow, this book got me.
And I would read it three hours a night,
Here's what I knew as I was reading for those weeks that it took me to read the Old Testament.
I'm a sinner.
And I'm separated from him.
I've broken his holy law.
And I can see there is a judgment that comes for breaking his law.
And yet the most beautiful part of it all, I kept reading because I go, but somehow I just know this ends well for me.
I didn't know anything obviously that at least it wasn't tying together.
Somehow this ends well for me.
And then I came to the New Testament, and if you would, when I got into that very passage, it was Jesus in my bedroom in Cocoa Beach, Florida, as I like to say, 325 Ocean Beach Boulevard.
Apartment 406, he came in and literally, here's my gift, it's my son.
For God so loved the world.
Was no longer the world.
For God so loved Ray.
I gave my only begotten son for you.
And I said, I'll take that gift.
I didn't think of doing anything for him.
I didn't think that I needed to do anything.
I just know he came.
He presented this gift and I took this gift and I came into this beautiful place in relationship with him.
And oh, the beauty of it.
And he goes on as he builds on this poem.
We'll get there as we look at that.
Would you look at verse nine as he says, how you can't be saved.
Not of works, least anyone should boast.
And as I said, when is enough?
When do you come to enough that I've done enough to receive these things?
And is it one more thing?
And I had a longtime friend call me a couple weeks ago.
And it's a story that seems continual, repeats itself often.
He goes, you know, we grew up in the gift of grace and believe in these things that we, you know, we study.
And he goes, you know, my son, Ray, he's just now, he's moved from the simple place of grace.
He now has moved into this place of works and everything is a works relationship for him.
And then the movement,
comes and goes and it's we see it more and more where people you'll see these churches popping up now where it's see Jesus Christ salvation through Jesus Christ but then they come and they go and we're gonna start meeting on Saturday and we're going to focus our teachings on the Old Testament the law so that we can keep God's law and
please him through the works, keeping the works and doing the works of the law.
And he goes, so my son, he's left those, you know,
chapter by chapter verse by verse through the Calvary Chapel.
This is where he wants to go now.
And he goes, it's hard.
You know, the relationship has all suddenly turned hard.
And I let him speak for, you know, like 30 minutes, you know, and this is when you counsel with somebody or someone, there's a place you just got to let them speak.
Let them speak so they can, they just want
They want to be heard.
They want their heart.
They want to share the heart.
And so there's a place, you know, you just let them speak so they can share and then you start sharing the burden.
But, you know, after some time it was, you know, what's your thoughts?
I called you because I wanted to share my heart, but I also looking for Godly counsel.
I go, well, tell me if these three things sound familiar.
And, you know, maybe it's even someone here today.
I said, tell me if these three things sound familiar without me being there.
And you didn't say any of these type of things, but tell me if these things, three things sound familiar because they're always the same three things in all of my years that I watch when I see this happen.
I said, do you sense and see a criticality towards your simple belief of grace by faith?
And even to the point that it becomes a self-righteousness, that you're not doing enough good works.
He goes, yep, absolutely.
And I said, and secondly, I said, is there something, you don't have to tell me the details.
I said, is there something in his life that he has still not forgiven himself over?
And there's a guilt and a shame in whatever that failing was.
He goes, oh yeah, he can't forgive himself for this certain thing that has happened in his life.
And you see why?
Because people just can't accept that God could freely forgive for failures.
God demonstrated his love for you that while you were still yet sinners, Christ died for you.
So even the failing or shame, whatever happened in your life, you don't have to go and go.
Well, now I need to somehow show him my earnest of my love for him and these type of things.
He loved us while we were still yet sinners.
He's going to love us while we're even in sin because he wants to love us through it to take us beyond it that he can turn us into his workmanship for good works later.
And we'll get there in our passage today.
He goes, absolutely.
There's something he just won't.
forgive and he carries it with him.
And I said, and thirdly, I go, I bet you, you spend more time talking about the work than the sacrifice of the Savior.
He goes, yep, it will always be, you got to do this, you got to keep that.
And I failed here or you're failing there and these type of things.
And you know, in the Old Testament, the works of the law, when you were guilty, you did the same thing.
You take a lamb, you go down to the temple when you broke God's holy law and failed anywhere in this Old Testament, you would lay your hand on the head of the lamb, you would transfer your guilt and shame onto that lamb and then you would take it to the temple, to the altar.
The lamb would be sacrificed and then the blood would be sprinkled and the covering of blood would cover you.
And of course Jesus Christ became that final sacrifice and the final covering that we don't have to go to the temple anymore.
It's just covered once.
It's done forever and for all time.
But here we go again.
When you live in this realm, you spend more time talking about the sin rather than the sacrifice that was paid.
And what I say to you,
When you come and you meet these people and you face these things, I go, but you do have one thing in common through it all.
I go, you have one thing in common even as far as the drift has gone.
You both believe that Jesus Christ is the sacrifice for sin.
And I go, so every time you get in this conversation, you don't have to get into the countering and the challenging of New Testament, Old Testament, all these type of things.
I said, you can sit and listen and through all of it through, and then at the end you always get to come to the same place.
Then we need to go to the sacrifice, don't we?
Jesus Christ, Him crucified.
And I said, in the blood of Jesus, eventually I believe, for by grace you've been saved through faith.
and the love of God and the grace of God as it moves through us to take us not of works, least anyone should boast.
There's nothing we could possibly boast because of what he's done in the finished works that we have here.
But you know, what I just said, it also goes around us everywhere.
And here we are today.
And I just address my Catholic friends.
We live in the heart of Catholicism here in our region from Maryland up to Boston.
It's the largest Catholic basis in the United States of America.
right here in the region that we live.
So I think many of us know it.
We're raised in it and have family and friends in it.
And I just, maybe it's even you here today or someone's online watching today.
And what I want to say is I think we agree that Jesus Christ is the Lord and Savior, but I would still put the challenge in there that I think for many of the Catholic friends, you're putting more hope into your seven sacraments.
then you are in the the finish for God so love the world or for by grace you've been saved through faith.
It comes that you must do these seven sacraments, which is infant baptism, to holy communion, to first confession, confirmation, and confirmation supposedly that some man can lay hands or pronounce the spirit of God coming inside you.
Last week we studied John 3.3.
Jesus said, very, very, I say unto you, unless you're born again, you cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
And some people will say, I'm saved, but I'm not a born again person.
To be born again is you've died spiritually by breaking God's holy law.
To be born again is to receive Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior and then you are birthed from the spiritually dead to made alive to be new spiritually alive.
And what happens when that is, the Holy Spirit comes and takes up residence inside you.
And we'll be studying through that in our chapters that come.
And now God is in you.
The Spirit is alive in you.
You've been born again.
Confirmation is you go and it's through a certain studying, preparing, and then a pronouncing by a priest.
Confirmation is that the Holy Spirit then is pronounced upon you and comes and takes up residence in you.
It happens when you
believe for by grace you've been saved through faith not of works least it's a gift not of works least any man should boast and so I say that because I know the reason that I live and I know the people but we also have and you know we call them friends maybe neighbors and they knock on your door the Jehovah witnesses
They believe it's a works and you know they have to knock on doors to work for the Lord to do this work for him and to which I would just literally say man that's a hard way to live because I always want to say how many doors is enough?
What if you die one knock short?
Who knows how many doors has to be knocked on to receive this that you've done enough works?
And once again, here we go of, it's not of works, at least anyone should boast.
And he's making it a freeing that I don't have to worry of these type of things.
And then there's the other ones that, again, what I just described with my friend, they only worship on the so-called Sabbath Saturday, because that's the law that you worship on Saturday.
Where sometimes I go, how are you sure it's even Saturday after all these years?
You know, 6,000 years.
Is today really Saturday or is it Friday or is it?
you know Tuesday but nonetheless those type of things you must worship on the Sabbath and you must rest on the Sabbath and this was really prevalent when I was in Russia and we had spoken somewhere and it was like a whole week later because it was like on a Sunday and it was a whole week later it was a Saturday and we were on the 17th floor and there's no power you gotta
And if you've ever been there, you got a long haul, you know, to take a bus, then you got to walk anywhere you're going.
And then all the buildings are these, you know, 20, 30 story buildings.
And none of them have out, you know, most of the power doesn't work or the elevators constantly broken.
And the point I make is we're in,
you know the apartment and I get a knock on the door and I go answer the door and it was a young gal who had been there at one of our you know places we were speaking and she comes all the way up and I open the door and the first thing she says to me today's the Sabbath I go oh okay she goes we rest on the Sabbath now perfectly thankfully God was you know keeping me
away from my sarcasm, because you know what I want to say?
So you just climb 17 stories to tell me that's the Sabbath and we don't work on the Sabbath.
But you can see how you can just not even realize how, wait a minute, I'm not resting on the Sabbath.
I'm going around telling everybody it's the Sabbath, but I'm not resting on the Sabbath.
And then you know what I simply answered?
I go, I agree it's the Sabbath.
And I go, you know, for me, I believe what the book of Hebrews tells me is every day is a Sabbath because Jesus Christ has finished the work and I can rest in him for my salvation.
And I go, I actually start every day saying, this is the Sabbath I can rest in you.
I don't have to work for my salvation.
And I'm not going to run out the door until I sit and just worship with you.
I go, I get seven days a Sabbath.
It's beautiful.
And it was a good conversation that we had.
And what I would say today and for us as we look at really there's only two days we need to worry about or think about or care about, whether it's a Saturday or Sunday or a Friday, what I want to say, the only two days we need to have our life focused around it's the day of the crucifixion and the second day is the day of the resurrection.
James 2 10 for those who want to keep the whole law.
For whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point he's guilty of them all.
For he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder.
Now if you do not a commit adultery but you do murder you have become a transgressional law.
He's making the point you can keep every law perfectly even the Sabbath.
But if you fail in any other way you're guilty and Jesus goes and he shows us in Matthew 5 it's a matter of the heart.
He says if you have lust in your heart, you're guilty of adultery.
If you have hatred in your heart, you're guilty of murder.
So he's shown us it's what's on your heart, not these outward works and actions that you do.
But speaking, if you confess with your mouth, Romans 10 9 through 13 confess means to agree, the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you'll be saved.
We come to this place, he's making the point, the power
of the gospel is the resurrection, because as Jesus died and was buried in the grave and he didn't rise again on the third day, we'd never know whether God accepted the transfer or the substitution, but that he rose from the dead.
Now we know it was accepted.
For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.
For the scripture says, whoever believes on him will not be put to shame.
Oh, there's the beauty.
Whatever the past guilt works aren't going to cover it.
We just believe in him will not be put to shame.
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek for the same Lord is overall rich to all who call upon him and the beautiful for whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
1 Corinthians 15, 3, and 4, for I delivered to you, first of all, that which I also received, that Christ died for our sin according to the Scripture, and that he was buried and that he rose again on the third day according to the Scripture.
Two days.
Crucifixion.
resurrection, Luke 24-46 through 48.
Then he said to them, thus it is written, thus it is necessary for the Christ to suffer and to raise from the dead the third day.
And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations beginning at Jerusalem.
And you are my witness to all these things.
Oh, the beautiful passage that we have.
And then as we finish off our devotion today,
Would you read with me verse 10 and it's a beautiful, it's nestled in here, it's plugged in here.
For we are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.
What a beautiful nestling that we have here is
how we're saved by grace, but it's almost as you work, but not of works.
But then we come to, and what was the purpose after all of it?
It was to be his workmanship, his, this word here in the Greek, it's poema.
It's where we get our word poem.
For we are his poem.
You know, the majority of poems are turned into songs.
And there's this beauty that,
as we do our devotion and have a warmth of passion.
Then we're going to get to worship him and give him praise as we close here today shortly.
We're his love song.
God writes a poem about me.
God writes a poem about you.
And then, again, as we talk about this poem, this masterpiece that he writes, and it turns it into this love song, I wrote.
Beloved, ready for this?
We are told that we are his walking poem.
And back in verse seven, we were held up as his trophy of grace.
And here in verse 10, we're being told that we are his walking poem.
And a poem is the artist's expression of his work.
It is his work, the poem that we want to work, express.
We are his poem.
And the point I'm just saying is, you know, I'm his poem, and I just want to express it to the world.
I want to praise him and give him this glory that I'm his poem that he's writing.
And again, it's a masterpiece in Webster's dictionary.
It's the artist's greatest work.
And it's the master artist and say, this is my greatest work.
And then that word play, I'm the master's piece.
I'm this piece that the Master have made.
I'm the piece that He glorifies.
And I look at this body and go, well, maybe not this body, but it's just a carrier for what He would have for us as you think of these things.
As I was looking through the human body, it's fascinating.
Of course, all it is, it carries the soul and then the spirit for those who are born again.
The human body is made up of 60 trillion cells.
The nose can detect 10,000 different smells.
The tongue has 6,000 taste buds.
The brain has 10 billion nerve cells.
The blood vessels linked together would circle the earth two and a half times.
It would take 200,000 pages to print out our DNA code.
And the brain stores enough data to fill 7 million books.
That is fearfully and wonderfully made.
But would you turn with me to Genesis chapter one as we look at this creation, this workmanship, this poem that he's made called You and I. Genesis one,
And I'm not going to read every verse for the time's sake, so you can skip through with me, but Genesis 1, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth.
Verse 4, because I want to weave through here as you look at these next handful, it's going to say, it was good.
Verse 4, and God saw the light that it was good, and God divided the light from the darkness.
Verse 10,
And God called the dry land earth and the gathering together of the waters called the sea.
And God saw that it was good.
Verse 12.
And the Lord brought forth grass and herb yielding seed after his kind and the tree yielding fruit whose seed was in itself after his kind.
And God saw that it was good.
Verse 18, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good.
Verse 21, and God created great whales and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind, and God saw that it was good.
Verse 25, And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and the cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and God saw that it was good.
Here we see these six days of creation, but then in verse 26 it leads up to his crowning jewel, his masterpiece, his beautiful poem,
And here we are, verse 26 says, then God said, let us make man in our image.
According to our likeness, let them have dominion over the fish and the sea, over the birds of the air, over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.
So God created man in his own image, the image.
In the image of God, He created him male and female.
He created verse 28.
Then God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and multiply.
Fill the earth and subdue it.
Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth.
Verse 29.
And God said, see, I've given you every herb.
the yield seed which is on the face of the earth, and every tree whose fruit yield seed to you it shall be for food."
Verse 30.
And to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given it every green herb for food, and it was so.
In verse 31, notice, then God saw everything that he made, and indeed it was very
Good.
So the evening and the morning were the six days.
I just find it the amazing, the beauty of it.
And God's master, he's a poet.
He's the ultimate poet.
And when you read this Bible, we can read it and we can all make the same mistake.
Black and white, words on a page.
Well, when I come and I open this Bible for my morning devotion, warmth of passion, glowing heart is fire.
for Jesus Christ, or I close my night with the word before me, and I go, I got a love song.
I have a poem written about a beautiful God, and I got a love song written, a poem written to me and about me.
And everything changes when I approach the scriptures like that.
And here's the master poet after he makes his crowning jewel, his creation as he puts
us before this all of creation.
It was good.
Then when he finally creates his masterpiece, the crown, the jewel of his creation, he goes, oh, it's very good.
And he would still say that to you today.
And then I think about this because verse seven, if you want to look over at chapter two, it says, and the Lord God formed man.
of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living being.
You ever think what that was like?
Because what we see in Genesis 1 and 2 is what's happening in Psalm 139 as he says that he forms us in our mother's womb.
All the creation is made.
He speaks it into this existence.
And then that day in the garden, here comes the Creator.
And He walks into this garden.
And like all of creation should, as we should, we miss it so often.
Here comes God.
He's doing something.
And yet we can be so busy missing God's walking among us.
I believe God walks among us every time we open the Word of God.
He says,
Every time we pray and we speak about him, he shows up because his word says, Hebrews two says, when we worship, he's worshiping in our midst.
This isn't the worship team.
He's the ultimate worship leader.
God's worshiping in our midst.
That day in creation be no different as it should be.
All of creation want to stop and go, here comes my creator.
And then he would have stopped.
What is he doing?
Then God of the universe stoops down.
and starts forming dirt with his hands.
The creator of the universe starts getting his hands dirty.
And all that's beautiful.
And I think about that because you just sit and you think of the master artist, the poet.
We're told in Jeremiah 18 and Isaiah 64 verse eight for you note takers that he identifies himself as the potter and we're the clay.
And here's the master potter.
shaping and forming this dirt.
And I think of what it was going to be like, because 930 years he's going to look at that face.
He's going to walk with Adam in the cool of the day.
Adam means mankind.
It's a picture that he's saying, man, as I was shaping Adam, it's how I was shaping you and your mother's womb.
Oh, and there's a beautiful thing about that then.
That means every one of us that we're looking at today, and everyone that we leave here and engage today, fearfully and wonderfully made.
every stroke they were made every person in this room made by the master Potter and he's shaping and he's forming Adam and then there comes this place that now I'm done all the stroke of your face the hair every form and shape of you that what I'm going to look at for 930 years but notice verse 7 and what it says
And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life.
And man became a living being.
It's the same for you and me.
It's the same in our mother's womb.
It says he breathed into the nostrils, the breath of God.
That means he had to get chest to chest, face to face, mouth to mouth.
to breathe the ruic, the breath of God into Adam.
And Adam becomes a living being.
And I don't think I have to go far to imagine the day then that he stands up.
Like any gentleman would.
He stands up.
Adam's on the ground.
The Lord puts his hand out.
Adam takes his hand and he lifts Adam from the ground.
Then he presents them to all of creation, this is my masterpiece.
And I think the garden would have broke out and the garden would have just euphoria like this is the amazing creation.
The poem, the masterpiece as we study.
And it gives us even a little more when he tells us about this great creation that we are in Psalm 139 verse 13.
You, for you formed my inward parts, you covered me in my mother's womb.
I will praise you for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Marvelous are your works in that my soul knows very well.
My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret and skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.
your eyes saw my substance being yet unformed and in your book they're all written, the days fashioned for me when as yet there were none of them."
I love this word, rot, it means needlework.
So here we see God, he's forming fashioned Adam with every stroke of the
of the dirt and the breeze, life, and we go, well, that's Adam.
Well, Adam, mankind, that's what it means, representing us all.
But he wants to say to you and me, and I hope you can, this is devotion, warmth of passion, glow and haught is fire.
You know, when I formed you in your mother's womb, it was a master tapestry.
The word rot means embroider, embroider, needlework.
Anybody do those needlework things?
Every thread pulls, every thread pulls.
And I love the part about needlework because there's a part where then behind the face covering that everyone sees, behind it is where the thread gets cut and tied.
And you can't see it unless you go behind it and see all this, this,
thread and knots and those type of things.
When you stand before it, you don't see any of that.
You don't see any of the stuff behind it.
I got to spend time with a master potter and he was, I guess, you don't just get to become a master potter because you said you are.
There was something behind his pottery that was recognized to be this master potter that he was.
And so him and his wife would go all around the country.
She would sing songs of love and grace and he would make pottery before your very eyes.
And so he would come with that big old wheel.
and his, you know, that big old wheel that would spin.
And then he would take that big old lump of clay, Jeremiah 18, Isaiah 64, and he would take that big lump of clay and he would plop it on that wheel that was spinning.
And of course he had this water because he had to pour the water on it to make it pliable and to be able to work it.
And he had, he had that whole, you know,
workman thing on that would cover him, but it wouldn't matter.
You know, even as it would cover his nice clothes, he would start shaping these type of things.
He'd be leaning into it.
All the mud would be getting all over him.
And then he's using his hands to shape in the form and it wipe his sweat.
And then the mud would all be on his face and start getting in his hair.
And he would just keep working it.
And you would just be sitting there going, this is amazing.
But you never know what it was when he took this lump of clay and he slapped it on there.
But he'd work it, and he'd spin it, and he'd form it, and do all these type of things along the way.
He's picking out the mud that wasn't perfect, the clay that had lumps in it, and he'd work those things out and just keep working the perfect clay.
And then when he was done 10, 15, 30 minutes later, there would be this amazing vase or
Cup or whatever he had decided it to be but here's what was so All that was awesome to see but it was the statement that he made he said as a master potter I Know exactly and he's holding up the finished product he goes as a master potter I know exactly what this was going to be and look like When I put that lump of clay
down on that will.
He said, the Master Potter always knows what that is going to be from the beginning.
And here we are.
Here's this beautiful word.
from the Lord as he sits there.
Maybe you don't see it.
Maybe you don't feel it.
Maybe you're even wondering the value and worth that you have.
And again, we're doing a devotion this morning, just a warmth of passion, glowing hottest fire for our Lord Jesus Christ and what he thinks of us.
And you might go, all I feel like is a lump of clay.
And he's like, oh, you should see this finished vessel that I'm going to make.
Wait till you see it in heaven.
It's going to be glorious.
stroke, every forming, every fashion.
I have a purpose and an intent in it and behind it.
And the back to the rot with the needlework, every needle thread that I pull, I'm making this beautiful poem, this beautiful tapestry.
For we are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works.
Men, you come on Wednesday.
Anybody who
Ladies, men, you can't make it.
We'll get a link out there.
We'll put it in the newsletter.
You can watch some of you have seen it already.
His name's Dan Bowman.
He was imprisoned in Iran for preaching the gospel.
Beaten for faithfulness.
Amazing story that he tells.
But Dan tells the story.
He goes, you know, when I
was in high school.
I do a story, no justice, but you can see the video.
He goes, when I was in high school, I was like, Lord, what am I here for?
What do you want to do with me?
And he said, I was skipping rocks.
And he goes, I was just throwing rocks.
And he said, he heard the Lord go, hey, Dan, can I skip rocks with you?
And he's like, what was that?
character the way he speaks and he goes I just said you know I don't know what that was and he says I kept throwing rocks and I hear the Lord say again hey Dan can I skip rocks with you he goes what was that he goes it has to be the Lord he goes surely not the devil because the devil doesn't want to skip rocks with us he wants to throw rocks at us and again the character that he is and he says
Okay, Lord, but why?
And he said, the Lord spoke to him because you want to.
He just wants to be friends with us and he wants this relationship with us.
And he said, and like all of us, I would say, hey, Lord, what do you want me to do for you today?
What would you like to do?
And I love how he says it because he says it multiple times the way he weaves his story.
The Lord would go, yeah, yeah, yeah, Dan, we'll get to that.
But for right now, just sit still.
For right now, Dan, here's more of my love.
And we would just skip rocks together.
And I know the Lord has something for us, and He wants us, He prepares us for these works, but we are the work.
And He just wants to spend this time with us.
And we always feel that's got to be something that I do and something that I'm, and really it just comes out.
Lord, what do you want me to do?
And I believe the Lord will just speak.
He goes, yeah, we'll get to that.
We'll get to that.
But right now, right now this morning, here's just more of my love.
Receive my love.
Take my love.
Let it warm your heart.
Let it just wash over you.
And let's read that verse one more time.
For by grace you've saved through faith, not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, least anyone should boast.
For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.
Let's have the worship team come back.
We'll worship the Lord together.
And while they're coming back, that's the old,
gives the pastor an opportunity to speak for three more minutes.
I'm reminded of a story that's so beautiful for us today, a cold day in the warmth of God's love.
Just what he thinks of us being this poem is masterpiece.
the needlework and the great work of all these things.
And it's a story of a little lad and he made a boat from scratch.
He and his dad went out and he got the wood, they got a piece of wood, used his dad's woodworking tools to carve out and make this boat, this little
hobby boat.
Then he got the sandpaper and he sanded the boat and sanded the boat until it was perfect and smooth and then by his creativity and artistic-ness of his heart he went and painted the boat into the color that you know was moving him to do so and he's made this amazing beautiful boat but of course it's a boat it's got to float.
So down to the creek that they go and he puts it
In the creek, he and his father are there and the boat does what it was designed to do, just floated and it was perfect.
And he's enjoying the boat just drifting as he's walking with it along the shoreline.
Then a gust comes, gives this boat this little push and pushes it further into the middle of the creek.
And then it becomes the place where, oh, I can't reach it now.
And the boat picks up some current and then really starts moving.
So he's walking along the shoreline trying to keep up with the boat, but eventually it just reaches a point that it's gone.
He can't reach it.
It's out of the touch and the boat is moving by the swiftness of the current and it's gone.
All that work that he did, all that creating that he did, and then it's gone in just a day like that.
Heart broken.
He and his dad goes home.
But a couple weeks later, he and his dad are walking down the small town street.
They come past the hobby store.
And like these most hobby store, they have this big window of their prize piece that's for sale.
He looks in there and it's the boat that he made.
And he goes in, he says to the owner, that's my boat.
I made it.
And the owner goes, actually that's my boat.
I bought it.
Someone brought this boat to me and I paid
this much money for it, and now it's mine.
The owner says, if you want it, you can buy it.
The boy looked at the price, he looked at his father, and his dad said, son, that boat would cost you every penny that you own.
It would cost you everything to buy that boat.
And the boy says to his dad, I'll spend it all to get my boat back.
buys the boat, takes the boat, they leave the shop and he makes this statement and he's hugging and holding this boat.
He says, I made you and I bought you.
You're now twice mine.
It's a beautiful picture.
The Lord has made us and shaped us.
formed and fashioned us in our mother's womb, just as he did back in the garden with Adam, every stroke that he's designed and made us into be.
But then when we were sold into sin, he had to come back and buy us back through his very blood.
The hands that made us and got dirty, the hands are now the ones that became bloody there upon the cross.
And here he is today holding us,
Wrapping us in his arms of love saying I made you and I bought you and you are twice mine Father I thank you for this passage.
I thank you for the warmth of it Never get tired of just sitting and soaking on it doesn't really even care about teaching There's just a time to sit and enjoy the warmth of your heart and your love With thoughts that you have towards us thoughts of peace and not of evil to give us a future and a hope Lord what we do is
With you, as you'll say, yeah, we'll get there.
But for today, right now, here's just more of my love.
Thank you for your love.
Thank you for the warmth of it, fitting for the day and the coldness outside, the warmth of God on the inside, the building and the heart.
Lord, would you hear this song of worship?
Let it lift before you and let it bring you warm your heart.
May we sing it from our very heart.
in the precious name of Jesus that bought us and made us twice yours.
In your name, amen.
amazing calling, what an amazing place to be chosen, your beloved one, your poem, your masterpiece, your needlework, your love song.
And Lord, that's enough.
Could there be anything else that could be added to that?
Thank you.
We bless you.
We love you.
You're an amazing God.
Thank you for opening your heart to us through your word and letting it speak to us through your spirit and now leading us into the place that we can worship you because you rightly deserve all praise.
Lord, I pray wrap your people in your law arms of love and let everyone leave here today knowing who they are in Christ and the treasure and the value.
And Lord, what you would have us do, we'll worry about that later.
But right now,
Here's more of your love.
We pray this in your name.
Amen.
God bless you.
We'll pick up here next week.